>> Jem: All right, so
now we're come to SSH.
I know I told you I wouldn't do that so
until you do something and
I'll explained it, but
SSH, I'll explain it now.
All right, so
SSH is Secure Socket Shell and
it's a way of connecting to remote devices
and there's two basic ways of doing that.
there's username/password which we
just did, so student was the username,
password is I am a great engineer and
there's also ssh key.
And we're gonna find out why ssh key
are preferential to login to a server.
But for now, you can start off
with just the username and
password, that's probably
the most basic way of getting in.
But it's not the most secure of doing
things and someone in the room tell me
what's wrong with logging in with
a password, without looking at the slides.
Sorry?
>> Speaker 2: I was saying someone could
just know your password.
>> Jem: Yeah,
someone could break into it because humans
in general we're so bad at passwords.
So we make things easy to remember, and if
it's easy to remember it's probably short,
if it's short someones gonna break in.
>> Speaker 2: Especially in this case if
it's easy to type.
>> Jem: Exactly, Exactly so
these are some of the most commonly
use passwords in the world.
If I'm speaking to a room
of a thousand people,
at least 10 of these people
have one of these passwords.
I love password eight,
my favorite is the last one.
Cuz you know, servers like know,
we like to make users more secure
cuz we're bad at passwords.
So we're gonna make
the minimum length eight.
So they say okay, one, two, three,
four, five, six, seven, eight.
It's, yeah,
it's a never ending quest of security.
And as security terrier reminds us,
we have to always be vigilant.
So, username/password is just a bad idea
because people are always trying to break
into servers.
And the best is when you
make some arbitrary,
it's gotta be an uppercase letter and
a symbol and two characters and
your mother's maiden name and
your dog's birthday.
People just write it on a post-it note and
put it on their computer because,
I can't remember this password.
Screw IT, screw security, humans,
we're bad at remembering things,
that's why we have a DNS system.
So we don't have to remember IP addresses.
So, we're not gonna use
user name password anymore.
It's just too insecure,
it's too easy to break into, and
people are always trying
to break into a server.
I know you probably can't use this, but
this is just a quick
snippet of my off-log.
From my own personal server,
like Jemyoung.com there's literally
nothing interesting on it.
[LAUGH] Literally nothing.
But people are always
trying to break in and
this is the one day of people
attempting to break in to my server.
But I don't use a password on my server,
I use an SSH key, why?
Because people keep trying to guess.
So what are they using here?
They're using admin,
[SOUND] lot of admins, tests, admin.
Yeah, people are always
trying to break in.
That's, I'm gonna hit this later over and
over and over again, but
people want to steal your crap,
all the time.
It's just happening right now.
As we speak, someone is trying to break
into that server that we just logged into.
So, we're gonna use something
called Public Key Authentication,
instead of user name, password.
Because passwords are easily guessable
even if you have a 21 character password,
that's not that secure.
This laptop could guess
all the 21 password,
like all the iterations of 21 length
character password in seconds.
Just this laptop.
So we're not gonna use passwords,
we're gonna use an SSH key.
So, there's a question on how to check
each person has logged into my server?
We will go over looking
at the auth log later.
But, for now, you don't have a server,
so don't worry about it.
There's no one trying to break in yet.
They will, [LAUGH] so
public key authentication.
We're gonna make an SSH key here shortly.
What that means is you have a public key,
you have a private key.
The public key is the one
that you put onto the server.
What's the best analogy for it?
It's like a two-way lock essentially,
public key in encrypts everything.
But the only way to decrypted
it is with your private key.
The private key you never,
ever, ever give out.
But your public key, I can hand it out
like a business card, like here you go,
here you go, here you go, here you go.
And that's the great thing about
public key authentication.
Is I could put it on Twitter,
I could put it anywhere and I
could say hey, I wanna give myself
the ability to log into your server.
Here's my public key.
And since I have the private key,
I'm the only one that can login,
even though you have the public key.
It's such a fantastic system.
And so
we're gonna make an SSH key right now.
The public key goes on your server,
your private key stays on your computer.
And we're gonna look at
the private key and see why,
I won't say unbreakable cuz everything's
breakable with enough time and money.
But it's as close to unbreakable as
we can get with current technology.